you know what actually I have I have
thought maybe I do have two high
standards I tried to cater to what this
person wanted and it just slowly slowly
dwindled me into despair honestly and I
think you know you should keep those
standards high but if you've been single
for a few years and you're just only
focused on looks then yeah maybe your
standards on looks are too high but just
for my own personal experience I have
definitely been in what I would consider
a toxic relationship and I'm not even
calling the person I dated toxic it was
just no toxic for myself because for
whatever reason we're just not
compatible and I'm still thinking okay
something's gonna change like we're I'm
just need to wait until it gets better
so you're saying that you were the toxic
one there is absolutely nothing wrong
with being a youtuber and when I say
that what I mean is there's a lot wrong
with it it's really up and it'll
ruin your life but I don't want to talk
about it in this video we are talking
about the question of why Nina and Randa
have been trapped in this endless cycle
of coming on YouTube and complaining
that they can't get a man can't get
married that they're stuck being single
as you're six years go by and they creep
ever closer towards age 30 and I start
with that disclaimer because I do not
think I do not think for one moment that
the problem is that they're youtubers or
that we should blame their predicaments
in life on the fact that they do use you
and let's be clear
blaming YouTube for your bad content is
like blaming your word processor for why
you write bad poetry blaming the
microphone for why you can't rap it's
true to a limited extent if the
microphone is really terrible well if
your keyboard doesn't have the letter O
on it your ability to write poetry is
going to be hampered your ability to
court rap music amber but I was looking
at a youtuber the other day called Lindy
boat s he pronounced her first name
Lindy completely boring
language education you two nothing
interesting about it don't recommend the
channel at all okay lyndie boats and her
YouTube channel giving you advice and
how to learn Spanish and how to learn
French better in this kind of thing
there's no sense in which her youtube
channel is an obstacle to her finding a
job there's no sense in which her
YouTube channel is not skilled to her
finding a boyfriend but for Nina and
Randa it really is one of the first
things that's very striking about Nina
and randa's content is that they're
childish and most men I'm gonna go out
on a limb here and say the vast majority
of men avoid childish women even if
they're not aware that they're doing it
right and let me tell you something
about childishness if you're childish at
age 26 27 whatever they're up to now
they're in that ballpark the odds are
you're not just gonna be equally
childish at 37 and 47 you can become
more childish show that to anyone here
who's ever volunteered in an old folks
home elderly people can just sink into
being very self-indulgent very childish
retired people oh no I don't like my
pancakes cooked that way no I want it
more I want it more runny on one side
and more well-done on the other I used
to work at a Starbucks we'd have elderly
and retired people all the time making
these unbelievably finicky requests and
returning something as being not the way
they wanted it and stuff and it's like
dude like you're behaving like a
six-year-old then you're older than 60
you know so getting getting older is not
getting wiser getting older is not being
more mature and people people who've
managed to make it to age 26 27 while
remaining childish the odds are they're
gonna stay childish okay the
significance of YouTube itself and
social media itself in the
slow-motion train wreck that is the
lives of Nina and Rhonda I think it's
also a significant or caper this way its
significance is much much much greater
because they pursued social media to the
exclusion of other opportunities right
so in economics that's called
opportunity cost it's not just that they
do YouTube it's that they chose to do
YouTube instead of going to university
alright now this is something I'm not
comfortable generalizing about the
majority of people or 90% or even 10% of
people okay I think I'm unusual dis way
and my girlfriend Melissa is unusual
this way I would completely be willing
to date someone who dropped out of high
school or who never completed university
completely I would be completely willing
to be in a relationship and get married
to someone who was a career waitress you
know where she was a waitress today and
look in the future she was gonna
continue being way to skate but but you
know there's then something to be
explained there like I have the strength
of character to say to my mother my
father's deceased but I'd say to say to
my parents right oh look I'm in love
with this person this is the person I'm
gonna marry and she's a high school
dropout and she just works as a waitress
but here's why she's a really great
person anyway like here's why I love her
here's why she has redeeming qualities
that are way more important and that may
be true like you the point is not that
it's impossible to meet someone who's a
high school dropout or college or who's
a wonderful person that exists the point
is there's then a burden on me as the
man to explain to my parents and explain
to my colleagues and my friends and even
to explain to my kids one day if we have
kids together why did you choose this
person who had these obvious
disadvantages ooh who made these bad
choices in life who ended up dropping in
high school dropping into college or
just being a waitress so now
hypothetically it's easy for me to
imagine redeeming qualities for why I
would choose someone who didn't have
those kinds of formal attainments or a
positive career it's easy for me to make
a list of all the wonderful things that
could be true of someone in the abstract
that would compensate for that but the
point is to recognize
I have the strength I have the
detachment I have the character to stand
up for my woman when there's something
there other people are gonna raise an
eyebrow ad or sneer at or just regard as
low status socially and what most men
want in Western culture is to not have
to make those excuses most men don't
want to have to explain to other people
why they married a college dropout or a
gym fitness instructor or a stripper or
a waitress most men again I think they
may not be conscious of this they may
not be aware of this but one of the
reasons they would want to marry a
lawyer a woman who's become a lawyer is
just so that they never have to have
that conversation just so they're in a
position where their status and their
own family is unchallenged that their
parents regard this as a good match a
good choice look hmm
my ex-wife had a PhD from Cambridge
University
that sounds respectable and I've been in
situations where you can see how
differently everyone behaves if I
describe her that with like she's not
there I'm talking to people oh yeah I
met you know I got married to a woman
from you know with the PhD from came to
university oh and they oh okay now
that's a completely different reaction
from same people people who are just
getting to know me more or less complete
strangers you know I did this I've been
in situations like oh yeah yeah my wife
she's a woman who used to sing jazz in
Beijing and you know I met her in Yunnan
and she's you know she's a French woman
who was singing jazz and Beijing at the
time when I met her like I could mention
other things about her life and what she
was doing you know yeah she studies
Chinese is like put together where you
you leave that out and feel like the
reaction you get and the the onus that's
on you the question of justifying your
relationship your choice your love and
then again what that says about you what
does it say about you if you're the guy
who settled for a college dropout who
teaches fitness classes at the gym right
and sorry that is Nina and Amanda's
situation I would say in the city of Los
Angeles
being a college dropout fitness
instructor the gym is regarded as very
low status and then if what you're doing
on YouTube is of such incredibly low
intellectual caliber that you're not
developing yourself as a person your
remaining unbelievably childish you know
they do these childish terrible terrible
comedy sketches terrible songs and so on
there look regardless of whether or not
they're in neatly childish people
they're always broadcasting their
childishness they're acting of their
challenges it's obvious they're not new
ashamed of their illness and they're not
working to improve themselves in any way
I said this the other day in a totally
different context Melissa and I were
talking to my mom and I said to my mom
deadpan serious look I think that making
YouTube videos can be much more
educational than going to university
there's no comparison right if you want
to you can challenge yourself to read a
new book every week and come on here and
do an analysis of the book and engage in
a conversation with another YouTube
we're about the book you go this is not
even talking about the role of the
audience if you're making YouTube videos
and nobody is watching you can take this
platform as an opportunity to give
yourself an unbelievably rigorous
education you can work through a list
list of books you can challenge your own
ignorance you can grow tremendously as a
person and then viewers if you have any
they're gonna see that development now
again a really boring youtuber like
Lindy boats I'm sure if you look at her
channel you see something like that you
see earlier in her channel she was
studying Korean and now she's studying
Japanese and French and she went she has
some kind of job as a computer
programmer you get to see the things in
her life as she develops and I assume in
the next five years you're gonna see
where where her life goes to you're not
gonna see someone locked in this kind of
Perpetual self-indulgent petulant
childhood you're gonna see someone where
again you wouldn't be ashamed to
introduce them to your parents you
wouldn't be ashamed to induce them to
you're your circle of friends or say
yeah this is the woman I chose this is
the person I chose to marry
okay so yeah there is nothing shameful
about YouTube in the same sense that
there's nothing shameful about a mirror
but YouTube no doubt I'm much more
profoundly than any mirror it provides
us with an opportunity to reflect on
what our lives are what they were what
we're aspiring to become and then what
we actually become alright hey I get to
come here on YouTube and some of this
happens accidentally like YouTube
recommends my own videos to me I can
click on a video I made 5 years ago I
can click on a video I made when I was
studying Japanese not Chinese right I
can click on a video I made the talks
about my life in Cambodia when I was
doing humanitarian work I can click on a
video that comes from this short span of
time when I was enrolled in a college
learning how to bake bread a technical
college for baking and cuisine
I can see these moments in my life and
moments my relationship with my
girlfriend Melissa even moments my
relationship with my mom moments of
elation with my daughter and I can see
the trajectory I was on and I could see
the aspiration and we were only talking
about the last 5 or 6 years of my life
now right I wasn't on YouTube 10 years
ago right so yeah it's very easy to
blame the mirror when really what you
need to do is blame examine your own
intentions look at what it is that's
being reflected there because YouTube
gives us all a kind of awesome power
like never before to ask the question
what have I become
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know